Most traders look at charts and guess
where the price could go. This shows
where the options markets actually
pricing the spx to be in the coming
weeks. Every SPX option is a bet on a
future price. And when you combine
thousands of those bets, you get a
probability map where traders thinks
price is more likely to end up. To build
this, you take option prices across all
price levels and create a smooth curve.
Then you take the derivative which tells
you how fast the option price changes
when you move the strike slightly. When
the option price drops very quickly
around certain strikes, it means traders
are cutting off a big chunk of the
expected payoff, which only happens
where the market thinks price is more
likely to be. Doing this again, let us
pull out the full probability
distribution from the options. This give
us the probability curve for a single
expiration showing where the spx is more
likely to finish in just a few days.
Repeat this for many expiration dates
and you get a forward probability
surface that shows how the expected rate
changes over time. From there, we can
calculate what is the probability that
SPX finishes above any level. You can
literally see which price levels the
market thinks SPX is likely to stay
above as time passes. When you overlay
these into price, you're trading
probabilities instead of drawing random
lines.